content/zilpzalp/required-supplies/index.md, before:

---
title: "Required Supplies"
description: "You will need these supplies to build your ZilpZalp!"
lead: "You will need these supplies to build your ZilpZalp!"
date: 2020-11-17T19:48:27+01:00
lastmod: 2020-11-17T19:48:27+01:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  zilpzalp:
    parent: "zilpzalp"
weight: 20
toc: true
---

| Image                                  | Part           | Description                                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                        |                |                                                                                                                       |
| ![soldering-iron](soldering-iron.webp) | soldering iron | We recomment a good soldering iron! Don't expect a challenge tho, the soldering on the 1337 is rather simple.         |
| ![solder](solder.webp)                 | solder         | Please use high quality solder (flux core or apply flux externally) to make your life easier when soldering this kit! |

Commit message:

zilpzalp inst, other minor improvements

content/zilpzalp/required-supplies/index.md, after:

---
title: "Required Supplies"
description: "You will need these supplies to build your Zilpzalp kit!"
lead: "You will need these supplies to build your Zilpzalp kit!"
date: 2020-11-17T19:48:27+01:00
lastmod: 2020-11-17T19:48:27+01:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  zilpzalp:
    parent: "zilpzalp"
weight: 20
toc: true
---

| Image                                  | Part           | Description                                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                        |                |                                                                                                                       |
| ![soldering-iron](soldering-iron.webp) | soldering iron | We recommend a good soldering iron!                                                                                   |
| ![solder](solder.webp)                 | solder         | Please use high quality solder (flux core or apply flux externally) to make your life easier when soldering this kit! |
