content/0xcb-helios/infos/index.md, before:

---
title: "Information"
description: ""
lead: ""
date: 2020-10-06T08:48:45+00:00
lastmod: 2020-10-06T08:48:45+00:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  0xcb-helios:
    parent: "0xcb-helios"
weight: 20
toc: true
mermaid: true
---

## Vendors

Here are the Vendors, where you can get Helios.

EU:

- KeebSupply ([Link](https://keeb.supply/products/0xcb-helios))
- Keycapsss ([Link](https://keycapsss.com/keyboard-parts/mcu-controller/257/0xcb-helios-pro-micro/elite-c-compatible-microcontroller-with-rp2040))

Worldwide:

- US: RingerKeys ([Link](https://ringerkeys.com/products/0xcb-helios))
- Canada: RNDKBD ([Link](https://rndkbd.com/products/0xcb-helios-microcontroller))

## Changelog

```mermaid



gantt
    title Helios Roadmap
    todayMarker off
    dateFormat  YYYY-MM-DD
    axisFormat %d.%m.%Y
    section v1.0
    dev                         :2022-07-28, 22w
    R1                          :2022-12-28, 2023-02-26
    R2                          :2023-02-26, 2023-07-02
    section v1.0 (CST)
    dev                         :2023-04-28, 2023-09-09
    R3 A stock                  :2023-09-09, 2023-11-10
    R3 B stock                  :2023-09-09, 2023-11-25
    hotfix                      :2023-07-10, 60d
    R4                          :active, 2023-11-06, 20w
```

---

- v1.0 [First version of Helios]
  - Round 1
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
  - Round 2
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied A stock to RingerKeys
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss

---

- v1.0 (CST) [Added castellated pads]
  - Round 3
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied B stock to KeebSupply due to manufacturing issues
    - Supplied A stock to RingerKeys
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss
  - Round 4 [improved manufacturability of the castellated pads]
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss
    - Supplied A stock to RNDKBD

---

Commit message:

updated helios and gemini inst

content/0xcb-helios/infos/index.md, after:

---
title: "Information"
description: ""
lead: ""
date: 2020-10-06T08:48:45+00:00
lastmod: 2020-10-06T08:48:45+00:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  0xcb-helios:
    parent: "0xcb-helios"
weight: 20
toc: true
mermaid: true
---

## Vendors

Here are the Vendors, where you can get Helios.

EU:

- KeebSupply ([Link](https://keeb.supply/products/0xcb-helios))
- Keycapsss ([Link](https://keycapsss.com/keyboard-parts/mcu-controller/257/0xcb-helios-pro-micro/elite-c-compatible-microcontroller-with-rp2040))

Worldwide:

- US: RingerKeys ([Link](https://ringerkeys.com/products/0xcb-helios))
- Canada: RNDKBD ([Link](https://rndkbd.com/products/0xcb-helios-microcontroller))

## Changelog

```mermaid



gantt
    title Helios Roadmap
    todayMarker off
    dateFormat  YYYY-MM-DD
    axisFormat %d.%m.%Y
    section v1.0
    dev                         :2022-07-28, 22w
    R1                          :2022-12-28, 2023-02-26
    R2                          :2023-02-26, 2023-07-02
    section v1.0 (CST)
    dev                         :2023-04-28, 2023-09-09
    R3 A stock                  :2023-09-09, 2023-11-10
    R3 B stock                  :2023-09-09, 2023-11-25
    hotfix                      :2023-07-10, 60d
    R4                          :2023-11-06, 2024-08-25
    R5                          :2024-08-25, 2024-12-30
```

---

- v1.0 [First version of Helios]
  - Round 1
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
  - Round 2
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied A stock to RingerKeys
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss

---

- v1.0 (CST) [Added castellated pads]
  - Round 3
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied B stock to KeebSupply due to manufacturing issues
    - Supplied A stock to RingerKeys
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss
  - Round 4 [improved manufacturability of the castellated pads]
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss
    - Supplied A stock to RNDKBD
  - Round 5 [Added Purple and White Helios options]
    - Supplied A stock to KeebSupply
    - Supplied A stock to Keycapsss
    - Supplied A stock to RingerKeys

---
